---
layout: blog
title: Gym & Food
date: '2012-10-07T11:31:00.001+01:00'
author: Mez Pahlan
tags:
- food
modified_time: '2012-10-07T13:21:15.333+01:00'
thumbnail: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-1mcJ30yN_ng/UHFw3-v70_I/AAAAAAAAJWM/jxbXjf7HHr0/s72-c/IMG_20120910_192225.jpg
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-7057712950286438970.post-8541706930267253049
blogger_orig_url: http://mezsays.blogspot.com/2012/10/gym.html
---

This past month I've been trying out a new exercise routine. It involves high intensity interval training and more weights than I would normally do. The idea is to stimulate my body to have a higher proportion of lean muscle than fat. So far it has worked well! Muscle seems to burn off a lot more excess weight whilst I'm not at the gym than long distance running that I used to do.

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/friends.jpg alt="Friends" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>Friends</figcaption>
</figure>

<!-- more -->

I'm not a gigantic muscle man though. And I still have a few troubles with the diet, but it is probably the best diet and exercise regime that I have stuck to. The diet is simply lots of water, regular small portions, increase in protein through chicken turkey and beef and fewer carbohydrates like rice chips and potatoes. I have to be careful here since cutting down and shifting my diet in such a small amount of time is hard to do correctly. Nevertheless, I'm finding my balance.

I've found a great place for lunch near St. Paul's in London that is essentially a butchers. They also cook their own meat and serve it up for lunch. It is really delicious. I recommend it if you're after a similar diet. Cheap too! Here's the link. [Porterford Butchers](http://www.allinlondon.co.uk/directory/1157/41246.php).

What's your exercise stories? Tips? 

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/squirrel.png alt="A squirrel without a tail" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>A squirrel without a tail</figcaption>
</figure>