---
layout: blog
title: Jubilee
date: '2012-06-04T14:27:00.000+01:00'
author: Mez Pahlan
tags:
- london
- bank holiday
modified_time: '2012-06-13T14:51:34.026+01:00'
thumbnail: http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-g2c9HNbw3Y4/T8y0l0eTacI/AAAAAAAAFDk/TOPJYzLZ1FQ/s72-c/C360_2012-06-03-12-22-37.jpg
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-7057712950286438970.post-3355066871776600003
blogger_orig_url: http://mezsays.blogspot.com/2012/06/jubilee.html
---

This weekend is the diamond jubilee for the Queen. Here's a selection of pictures from the day.

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/jubilee1.jpg alt="Pimm's O'Clock!" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>Pimm's O'Clock!</figcaption>
</figure>

<!-- more -->

It was a really rainy day right from the start. Not enough to put people off, but enough for you to get a bit wet.

As such we decided to drown ourselves in alcohol instead. I mean if we are going to get wet, then we might as well be pissed.

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/jubilee2.jpg alt="People waiting for the flotilla to attack" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>People waiting for the flotilla to attack</figcaption>
</figure>

There was a bizarre boat procession along the Thames. I swear they were practising an attack of some kind.

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/jubilee3.jpg alt="She's so British" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>She's so British</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/jubilee4.jpg alt="Watching the events in a pub by the river" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>Watching the events in a pub by the river</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/jubilee5.jpg alt="Morris dancers (crazies)" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>Morris dancers (crazies)</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/jubilee6.jpg alt="Wii and cocktails were much better" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>Wii and cocktails were much better</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
{% picture {{ page.id }}/jubilee7.jpg alt="Wii boxing" class="captioned-picture"%}
<figcaption>Wii boxing</figcaption>
</figure>

After watching the main bits of the ceremony, we decided to head back and play Wii sports instead. Luckily shops were open so we picked up some rum and vodka and continued to *celebrate*. Quite a fun day!
